# How to create Matter Device Type
This template demonstrates how to create a Matter Device Type. Let’s walk through the steps together.

## Makefile Modification
The `Makefile` serves as the entry point for building the project. You'll need to update this file with essential components like the toolchain, the location of the ZAP file, and the necessary makefiles for the build process.

To Do:
1. **Update `TEMPLATE_ZAP`**: Set this variable to the path of the ZAP file that corresponds to your device type.
2. **Create the ZAP File** (if needed): If a ZAP file for your device type doesn’t exist, create one using the zap-tool and place it in the SDK, such as in `component/common/application/matter/example/template`.
3. **Check Existing Examples**: Look in the `connectedhomeip/example` directory to see if there’s an existing example with a ZAP file that suits your needs.
4. **Include Makefiles**: Make sure that both the `core` and `main` makefiles are included in the build process.

## Core Makefile Modification (lib_chip_template_core.mk)
This makefile builds `libCHIP.a` library, which contains core Matter functionality generated by GN/ninja in connectedhomeip.

Steps:

- **Review Configurations**: All essential configurations are typically pre-included, so you generally won’t need to modify this file. However, if you need to enable or disable specific features, you can make those changes here.

## Main Makefile Modification (lib_chip_template_main.mk)
This makefile includes all the source files required to build the Matter application. It ultimately generates the `lib_main.a` library, which contains the main application logic.

Steps:

- **Include Necessary Files**: Make sure to include any driver source code and the specific device type code needed for your application.

## Matter Device Example (example_matter_template.cpp)
This file acts as the entry point to the Matter layer. It’s responsible for initializing key components like the Matter Stack and the device implementation.
A template is provided, which you can modify to include additional platform-specific initialization steps.

## Matter Device Driver (matter_drivers.cpp)
This file contains the implementation code needed for device initialization and setting up initial values.
It also includes callbacks to manage attribute changes either from the Matter Controller or to inform the Matter Controller of changes.

## Other Modification
Steps:

1. **Update `example_entry.c`**: Include the Matter device example API, such as `example_matter_template()`, to integrate it into the build.
2. **Modify `platform_opts.h`**: Add a new macro, such as `CONFIG_EXAMPLE_TEMPLATE`, to enable the example during the build process.

Now, your setup is complete, and you’re ready to build your Matter Device Type.

# How to build

## Configurations
Enable `CONFIG_EXAMPLE_MATTER` and `CONFIG_EXAMPLE_MATTER_TEMPLATE` in `platform_opts.h`.
Ensure that `CONFIG_EXAMPLE_MATTER_CHIPTEST` is disabled.

## Setup the Build Environment
  
    cd connectedhomeip
    source scripts/activate.sh
  
## Build Matter Libraries

    cd ambz2_matter/component/common/application/matter/example/template
    make template
    
## Build the Final Firmware

    cd ambz2_matter/project/realtek_amebaz2_v0_example/GCC-RELEASE/
    make is_matter
    
## Flash the Image
Refer to this [guide](https://github.com/ambiot/ambz2_matter/blob/main/tools/AmebaZ2/Image_Tool_Linux/README.md) to flash the image with the Linux Image Tool

## Clean Matter Libraries

    cd ambz2_matter/component/common/application/matter/example/aircon
    make clean
